Education means considerably more than just teaching a student to read, write, and
manipulate numbers. Computers, the Internet, and advanced electronic devices are
becoming essential in everyday life and have changed the way information is gathered.
How this new technology is utilized in the curriculum and managed by teachers will have an
important role to play in widening the resource and knowledge base for all students.
Technology affects the way teachers teach and students learn. To make the best use of
information technology (IT), schools need a workable plan to fully integrate it into all
aspects of the curriculum so students are taught how, why, and when to use technology to
further enhance their learning.
If a school does not have a clear plan of how and why it wishes to implement IT, then it
runs the risk of wasting money. In schools today, nearly all classrooms have access to a
computer. However, many schools mistake this as incorporating information technology
into the curriculum. School staff need to research what IT is available and what would best
serve the school's purpose, not simply purchase the latest equipment. There should be a
policy stating how IT is going to assist pupils' development and what teachers want pupils
to achieve (Reksten, 2000). Staff members need to be clear about what they want IT to do
for them before they can start incorporating it into their lessons.
The only way information technology is going to be useful to schools is if all staff members
are well-informed and fully supported. It is the principal's responsibility, and should be part
of the school's plan, to ensure that all staff are consulted about the changes, and that the
change is carefully organised. Some teachers may be resistant, especially if they have not
had much experience with computers, so training teachers is essential in implementing IT
into the school curriculum. Staff members must feel involved in the process of acquiring
technology, and in learning how to operate it, in order for them to increase their confidence
in using IT as a curriculum tool. Teachers are only going to be able to incorporate IT into
their lessons if they are competent users themselves (Reksten, 2000).
